So we are almost done with our theme now.
Let's do one final step which is localization. So during the course we will constantly internationalizing
our theme.
So when we for example had strings like "Posted on", "Read More" stuff like that we put these things in some
special functions like the "__" ,"_n", "_x" and so on.
So as theme developers it's not our responsibility to actually translate the theme into other languages
but it is our responsibility to create a file that translators will use in order to translate our theme.
So let's take a look here at
this article.
So we have three kinds of files, a POT file.
And this is the file that we are responsible for generating. This file will contain all the strings that
we added in these functions.
But it will not contain any translation.
It will just be a template that translators can use to translate
the theme. PO files on the other hand will contain translations.
PO files will be exactly like the POT files, except that POT files will not contain translations PO
files will contain translations. But they both have the same format. And finally PO files should be compiled
into MO files, Machine Object files. MO files are the most important files.
They're actually the files that functions like this one use in order to load the translation.
So if you're loading a language different than English this function will go to the MO file and see what
the translation for this string and loads from there.
The POT and the PO files are just for normal users and translators to use.
But eventually they should be compiled into MO files. And as I mentioned it's not our responsibility
to generate PO and MO files, the actual translations.
It's only our responsibility to generate the POT files. So let's do this in this lecture and then
we will also learn how to create actual transitions.
It's not required but as an extra thing you can also provide actual transitions with your theme.
So there are many ways to generate POT files and you can find a lot of them here.
But I'm gonna use, since we are using gulp, I'm gonna use gulp to generate POT files.
So lets Google "gulp wp pot".
And let's install it. Let's copy this command and
and now it's done. Let's run "npm start" again.
And let's actually see how to use this.
So let's go to our gulpfile. And that is the final task we're gonna do in the gulpfile.
And let's import it.
So "import wpPot from 'gulp-wp-pot'". And let's create a new task. Anywhere here so "export".
And let's call it "pot".
and let's "return gulp.src".
So the src() will take the files that contains the strings that we want to translate. So any files we have in
our theme that contain functions like this one and strings like this one.
We should include it here. So we can actually include all PHP files.
So "**/*.php" and we will pipe our wpPot() function. And this will take some arguments.
So it will take the text domain and our text domain, we call it "_themename".
And it also takes a "package". And this can just be the name of your project. So we can call it the actual
theme name which is "info.name". And then finally let's pipe to our destination.
So we should include our POT file inside a folder in our theme code languages.
Let's call "gulp.dest() and then it's open a "`" and then "languages/".
And then let's call our file the theme name which is "info.name".
And then ".pot".
So let's save this and let's try to run our task.
So let's stop and run
"gulp pot".
And let's see in our folder. We should know have languages and a POT file here.
So if you open this file you will find all the strings that we use in our theme.
Now translators can take this and translate these strings in many ways. They can directly type the translations
here and then rename this to "something.po". And this something should be the language code.
Or they can use a software like Poedit to have some user interface to translate the strings.
And that's what we're gonna do in the next lecture.
So as I mentioned this POT file should not contain any translations.
So let's move this and let's save.
And let's find in our gulpfile.
We want to run this task
every time we build our theme.
Right?
So that if we added some new strings this file will get updated.
So let's go to the "build" task and let's just add our "pot" task.
So that's all what you have to do.
But let's also take a look in the next lecture at how to provide actual translations in your theme.
So see you in the next lecture.